[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm William Henry, and
this is "Ascension Keepers."
In the second century
BC, the Essenes
broke away from the
rest of humanity
and took refuge at Mount Carmel
overlooking the Mediterranean
Sea and in Qumran on
the Dead Sea, Palestine,
among other sanctuaries.
The Dead Sea Scrolls
of the Essenes
show that they sought to attain
an elevated state of wholeness,
or holiness, in order
to transform earth
into a plane or planet
of righteousness,
a planet of angels.
This means Qumran was
more than just any refuge.
It was a command center for a
new humanity and a new earth.
And so too was Mount Carmel.
My research reveals that all
of the Essene communities
were ascension centers
where celestial beings found
safe harbor and
taught humans how
to perfect themselves and
transform into angels.
In other words,
they taught humans
how to wear their robes
of light and to ascend.
The Essenes answered
the question
"can a human become an angel?"
with a specific plan for mass
perfection or transformation
and ascension.
As we have seen,
ascension and perfection
are interchangeable
terms for the Essenes.
In addition to
perfection, scholars
refer to this transformation
as angelomorphism
or human transformation
into an angel.
Becoming an angel and ascending
is the one goal, they believe,
that takes care of all
other goals or intentions.
The Essenes claim they
possess this knowledge of how
to make or transform
humans into holy ones
and to change our
state of existence
by illuminating the world.
And if we accept that
the Essenes were living
among angels and
extraterrestrials,
the next logical question
is, who were these angels?
Or what kind of
angels were they?
The answer is, they are known
as the angels of the Lord,
or the watchers.
Early mystical Hebrew sects
organized these angels
into an archangel hierarchy.
This is the origins of the
spiritual hierarchy idea.
According to this
system, the watchers
are the highest angels
possible and were ruled over
by four of their own--
the great angels known as
Michael, Gabriel, Rafael,
and Ariel.
These are among the good
watchers we will discuss,
as is Metatron, who is actually
the transformed human, Enoch.
The watchers are the
mighty seraphim, the winged
and fiery serpents,
as they were known,
the burning ones who formerly
guarded the gate to Eden.
They came from God's
throne where they
served on God's divine counsel.
But they decided to leave.
They crossed a
forbidden boundary
and took on earthly bodies.
In Christian art, the seraphim
are portrayed as six-winged
and covered with feathers and
eyes, an appropriate attribute
of those who watch or
guard God's throne.
Their swirling
bodies are toroidal.
They are composed of
pure love and pure light.
In his famous vision, Isaiah
saw the seraphim enthroned
above the Ark of the Covenant
in the Holy of Holies
of Solomon's temple.
They stood above Yahweh as
he sat on his ark throne.
They are believed to be
the same as the cherubim
of First Chronicles whose
wings were stretched
above the Ark of the Covenant.
The root of seraphim comes
either from the Hebrew verb
seraph, to burn,
or the Hebrew noun
seraph, meaning a
fiery flying serpent.
And fiery serpents, says
Valencia [INAUDIBLE],,
was an epithet given
to Levite priests
after they departed
from the law of Moses.
The Levitical priesthood
began with Aaron,
the brother of Moses.
And it was they who carried
the Ark of the Covenant.
Many Essenes were Levite
priests and knew the secrets
of the true Ark,
the one that was
lost during the Jewish
exile in Babylon.
The seraphim are
described in scroll 4Q405.
It says-- the cherubim,
or seraphim, praise
the vision of the throne-chariot
above the celestial sphere,
and they extol the radiance
of the fiery firmament
beneath the throne of his glory.
And the holy angels come and
go between the whirling wheels
like a fiery vision of most
holy spirits, and around them
streaming revolts
of molten fire,
like incandescent
bronze, a radiance
of many brilliant
colors of exquisite hues
gloriously mingled.
The spirits of the living
God move in constant accord
with the glory of the
wonderful chariot.
In Jewish mysticism,
the complete physical
characteristics of
these angels includes
a humanoid body, a serpentine
face, a many-colored garment,
rising up into the air like
whirlwinds, luminous or radiant
bodies, feathered cloaks or
capes, many eyes, the ability
to fluidly morph or change
form and to shapeshift.
And around them, stream
rivulets of molten fire
like incandescent
bronze, a radiance
of many brilliant colors
of exquisite hues,
gloriously mingled.
Elsewhere, they are
described as lightning-like.
We are talking about a class
of beings that have the ability
to fluidly morph or phase into
physical flesh and blood bodies
and back into a higher state
of being where their bodies are
composed of celestial flesh.
To be the most accurate,
images of the seraphim
should portray them as
multicolored, or even
rainbow colored.
They are light beings.
In my opinion, this
is why the description
of their light bodies
precisely matches
the description of the
Tibetan rainbow light body.
As we have previously
discussed, perfection
was the goal of the Essenes.
And we have matched it to the
Tibetan rainbow light body
teaching.
I can prove this connection
through a very important
Greek word--
oiketerion.
In the New Testament,
the watchers
are the angels, which kept
not their first estate,
but left their
original habitation
and are now bound by
everlasting change of darkness,
awaiting the great day
of judgment, says Jude 6.
The Greek word translated here,
first estate, is oiketerion.
According to Strong's
Biblical Dictionary,
it speaks to a dwelling place
or habitation of the body
as a dwelling place
for the spirit.
It's an abode or
vessel for the soul.
The term oiketerion is used
in only one other place
in the Bible--
in 2 Corinthians 5:2 to refer
to the resurrection body
or eternal spiritual
light body of Christ.
In my opinion, this means that
the resurrection body of Jesus
and the light body
of these angels
is the same type of being.
In Christian art, the eternal
spiritual light body of Christ
is shown as a rainbow body.
This tells me that
the bodies and state
of being of the angels
who instructed the Essenes
and the perfected body state of
being of the resurrected Christ
are exactly the same.
And as we have seen,
there is good reason
to compare the swirling
bodies of the seraphim
with the rainbow light body.
Because they are the same.
In my opinion, this is why
the ascended Jesus appeared
as a seraph to Saint
Francis of Assisi
in the early 13th century.
Again, it's because the seraphim
possessed the celestial flesh
of ascended beings who dwell
in a higher phase of existence.
Jesus showed us what was
possible with oiketerion bodies
of the angels during the 40
days between his resurrection
and ascension to Zion.
Jesus turned up 12 different
times after the resurrections.
His followers claimed
not only to have
seen him, but also to have
eaten with him, touched him,
and to have received a cosmic
essence, the Holy Spirit,
from him while in
this new light body.
Jesus could pass through a wall.
He could manifest
as if out of thin
air, as he did during his
appearance to or meeting
with Paul on the
way to Damascus.
Which some actually believe is
the Essene compound at Qumran
during which the resurrected
Jesus spoke to Paul.
Jesus' next human
abilities correspond
to the yogic abilities,
or perfect powers,
called the Ashta Siddhi.
Siddhi can be translated as
perfection or accomplishment.
These eight powers
of the perfected ones
are the ability to make oneself
infinitely small in an instant,
even to the size of atoms, the
power to grow infinitely large
or to become giant at will,
levitation, or defying
the law of gravity, the
power to have anything
anywhere, the ability
to realize any dream,
total control over the
elements, the ability
to create or destroy matter,
and absolute lordship
over all creation and instant
materialization of wishes.
Other powers mentioned
in the Eastern texts
include mind reading, memories
of past lives, clairvoyance,
bilocation, materialization,
weather control,
ability to choose the womb
to be born in before birth,
transforming one material into
another by the use of the sun
or plasma rays, and morphing or
phasing into any desired form.
Earlier, we noted
that the Essenes
were named after the breastplate
of the Israelite high priest
that enabled them
to tell the future.
In effect, they were a
community of high priests.
Aaron was the first high priest.
And others say it was Adam.
This is because the
garb of the high priest
is the same as the light
body of Adam and Eve.
And the Holy of Holies
of Solomon's temple
where this garb was
worn is a recreation
of the Garden of Eden.
With this in mind and
these powers in mind,
let's look at what happened
to the high priest who
wore this breastplate when
he entered the Holy of Holies
of Solomon's temple.
When the high priest, or cohen
gadol, went into the temple
on the Day of Atonement,
he had already
undergone elaborate
preparations for purification.
The experience was considered
awesome, even perilous.
Imminent danger, even death
as well as redemption,
was at stake.
During this experience,
the high priest
would intone the
name of God, which
was inscribed on his crown.
The pronunciation
of the name was
thought to bring him into
direct contact with the divine.
And through the
power of the name,
he was able to experience
God as a consuming fire
that shone like a
rainbow, says 3 Enoch.
This tells us the rainbow light
and the name are connected,
if not the same thing.
The Marei Kohen is a
Jewish song or prayer
that describes the sight
of the high priest emerging
victoriously from the Holy
of Holies in the temple
after successfully speaking
the name during the Atonement
Ceremony.
Quote, "like the
lightning that emanates
from the splendor
of the divine beings
was the appearance of the cohen.
Like the blue thread and
the fringes of the four
corners of the garments was
the appearance of the cohen.
Like the image of the
rainbow formed in the clouds
was the appearance
of the cohen."
Like the lightning, like
the image of a rainbow?
Our question is, by
what means can a human
enter a place, holy or
not, and be transformed
into a lightning-like being,
radiant like a shining rainbow?
Is the portal of Solomon's
temple a transformation
chamber?
Is this transformation
from human flesh to a light
or lightning body a
literal, or is it just
a metaphorical, experience?
Lightning is plasma, the
same substance as the sun.
In fact, 99.999% of
the universe is plasma.
The angels who were present
in the tomb of Jesus
were also described as having
the appearance of lightning
or lightning-like bodies.
Is this tradition telling
us that the high priest
was transformed
into a plasma being
with the splendor of a rainbow,
meaning he was gloriously
robed in multicolored light?
This transformation is one of
the great secrets of Solomon's
temple and is the
ultimate knowledge
possessed by the Essenes.
It was taught to
them by angels who
existed in this state
of being and who
brought the technology
and this teaching,
including the Ark of
the Covenant, to earth.
But there is more to this story.
Importantly, the robe
of the high priest,
the garment of light, was
made from the same material
as the veil that separated
the holy place from the most
holy place in Solomon's temple.
Dr. Margaret Barker is
the preeminent expert
on this extraordinary
and supernatural veil.
And she says the
veil was the boundary
between earth and heaven.
It was covered with stars
and images of the seraphim.
Philo says that the veil
separated the changeable parts
of the world from the
heavenly region, which
is without transient
events and is unchanging.
The people who passed through
the veil, notes Barker,
were the mediators,
divine and human,
clad in priestly garments,
who walked between the worlds
in order to bring blessings
and the presence of God
to their people.
The Essenes text 3
Enoch makes it clear
that this transformation
was mental, physical,
and spiritual.
The high priest and all
others who experienced this
shed human flesh
and were transformed
into celestial flesh.
Josephus and Philo agree that
the four different colors
from which this veil
was woven represented
the four elements from which
the world was created--
earth, air, fire, and water.
The scarlet thread woven
through it represented fire.
The blue was the air.
The purple was the
sea, and that is water.
And the white linen
represented the earth
in which the flax had grown.
In other words, says Dr. Barker,
the veil represented matter.
The high priests wore a vestment
woven from the same four colors
and from this material.
And this is why
The Book of Wisdom
says that Aaron's robe
represented the whole world.
The robe of light is
woven from the same cloth
as the veil of the temple.
Dr. Barker points
us to the Epistle
to the Hebrews, which
explores the theme of Jesus
as the high priest after
the order of Melchizedek
and this otherwise
enigmatic line
that his flesh was the
veil of the temple.
In other words,
the veil was matter
which made visible
whatever passed through it
from the world beyond the veil.
Those who shed the
earthly garments
on the other side of
the veil were enrobed
in garments of rainbow glory.
In other words,
they became divine.
This means the veil was
a link to another realm
the Essenes referred to as
Zion, or the new Jerusalem.
It is the substratum of
reality, the quantum realm.
The Essenes called
this realm raz or reis.
And if one knows the
mysteries of the ras or reis,
they become a raised person
beaming rays of light.
This mysterious
reality beyond the veil
is known in fragments of
wisdom texts found at Qumran.
The Hebrew words raz, reis, or
rasum, meaning divine heavenly
mysteries-- raz nihyeh
the secret of the way
things are, and pesher, meaning
interpretation or hidden layer
of meaning, are used
in the Essenes Scrolls
for these mysteries.
Raz occurs frequently in
two particular books found
among the Dead Sea Scrolls--
the Book of Mysteries and
the Secret of the Way Things
Are, also called
the Sapiential Work.
The assumption behind
the Book of Mysteries
is that revelation or
apocalypse, not reason,
is the key to wisdom.
In fact, the word
apocalypse itself
means the lifting of the veil.
The book is authored by
an unnamed teacher who
claims to be the recipient
of such a revelation
and is passing it
along to his students
in preparation for an end time.
The end time described
by the author
does not manifest itself
in the normal culmination
of a battle, judgment,
or catastrophe,
but rather as a steady increase
of light through which darkness
is made to disappear or in
which iniquity dissolves
and, just as the smoke rising
into the air, eventually
dissipates.
Like many of the mysteries
we have been discussing,
the word ras or reis
can be traced to India,
where it also signified mystery,
secret learning or wisdom,
or even a ray
emanating from the sun.
This is the source of the
title reshis or rishis,
the great sages and
seers of Hindu mythology
who are stellar
spirits or angels
and are equated with the
seven stars of the Big Dipper.
Like the Essene raz masters,
the reshis, or rashis,
sought to become raised persons
with rays of light beaming
from their bodies.
And by raised is
meant transmuted
into a radiant and risen being.
Continuing with our wordplay,
the Sanskrit word for alchemy
or transmutation from
one form to another
is rasayana, literally
the abode of rasa,
meaning essence or sap.
Alchemy arises from
the premise that there
is a perfect equation
between the human body
and the universe.
That which exists
in the universe
can be found in the human
body, and vice versa.
And by knowing the essence of
the substance, the raz that
makes up the body, the essence
of the universe is also known.
Writing in the kabalistic
teachings of Jesus
in the Gospel of Thomas,
academic scholar Lewis Keizer
writes--
raz is the term used
in Daniel and Enoch
to describe messianic and
other sacred knowledge
that could be revealed
to humankind only
through the
intermediation of angels.
This is the full meaning
of the word apocalypse.
It is the lifting of the
veil of consciousness
via the help of
an ascended being.
Knowledge of the raz enabled
one to pass through the veil
to other realms, to return,
and to share it with others.
The raz is the teaching
of the seraphim.
The primary symbol of the divine
feminine and the ascension
mysteries, the serpent on
a pole, or the Asherah,
is also known as the Nehushta.
This is the symbol
of the seraphim.
Moses lifted this serpent
appealing in the wilderness.
When Moses lifted the
Nehushta, the key symbol
of the divine
feminine Kundalini,
it brought healing to
the Israelites, and also
the manifestation of
seraphim and a demonstration
of this knowledge of the
raz and Moses' ability
to pass through the burning
bush into the dimension
of the shining ones.
Thomas Aquinas said the seraphim
have the quality of clarity
or brightness, which signifies
that these angels have
in themselves an
inextinguishable light
and that they also
perfectly enlighten others.
This fire, frequency, vibration,
or presence is transmittable.
It's symbolized by
a garment of light.
Exodus 34:29
states-- and it came
to pass when Moses came down
from Mount Sinai with the two
tablets of testimony
in Moses' hand,
when he came down from the
mount, that Moses would not--
that the skin of his face shone
while he talked with them.
And when Aaron and all
the children of Israel
saw Moses, behold, the
skin of his face shone.
And they were afraid
to come nigh him.
Until Moses had done
speaking with them,
he put a veil on his face.
But when Moses went in before
the Lord to speak with him,
he took the veil off
until he came out.
And he came out and spake
to the children of Israel
that which he was commanded.
And the children of Israel
saw the face of Moses,
that the skin of
Moses' face shone.
And Moses put the
veil upon his face
again until he went
in to speak with him.
This tells us that before
he entered the burning bush,
Moses' face did not shine.
After, he radiated so much light
it terrified the Israelites,
prompting Moses to veil his
face to tone down this light.
Something happened to
Moses and the burning bush.
Something was transmitted to him
or activated from within him.
He became a burning
man, a burning one,
or a Seraphim angel.
As notes scholar
CRA Morray-Jones,
associated with the
stories of Moses' ascent
into heaven from Mount
Sinai and the bodily
metamorphosis that this entailed
is a very widespread Midrashic
tradition that all the
Israelites, when they beheld
the appearance of God's
manifest glory on the mountain,
experienced a similar
transformation of their bodies
and were translated
to angelic status.
We find, for example--
continues Morrey
Jones-- that God adorned
the children of Israel from
the splendor of his glory,
vested them in royal robes,
gave them crowns and weapons
engraved with the divine
name, all of which
liberated them from
the power of death.
The key point is that a
multiple number of chosen ones
wore the robes
simultaneously and ascended
and they possessed the
name or power of God,
the mysteries of the raz.
This scene is
exactly what we see
in Benjamin West's depiction
of the Ark of the Covenant
in operation.
We see the pillar
of righteousness
shoot from the ark, beaming
the righteous into heaven.
And we see a long line of
Israelites await their turn.
According to Rabbi
Eliezer, our Judah
says that whenever a man
puts on his fine clothes,
he becomes beautiful in
his appearance, glory,
and splendor.
Thus were Israel while they
were wearing that name.
They were as good as angels in
the presence of the Holy One.
The Essenes believed
humans could
transform into the
rainbow-colored seraphim.
Moses did, and he took a
number of people with him.
One of the key takeaways
from this episode
is our definition of
the word apocalypse.
In our contemporary
culture, apocalypse
is confused with
the word armageddon.
People talk about this
apocalypse or that apocalypse.
And they understand it to
mean a total conflagration
or destruction, an utter
cataclysm of some kind.
They're completely
misusing the word.
In order to get to the
ascension mysteries,
we've got to go back to the
original meaning of the word
apocalypse, which means
the lifting of the veil.
And in particular, we want
to focus on the understanding
that the apocalypse is a
transition or a transformation
of a human being into
a celestial being.
And that in fact,
the word apocalypse
refers to an angelic being
delivering to a human
being the knowledge, the wisdom,
even the frequency or vibration
that will enable their
transformation into a celestial
being.
And once again, we have seen
that these ascension mysteries
do not belong to any one
particular group of mystics.
Our ultimate ascension
mysteries that we seek
are going to be derived
from the Jewish tradition.
They're going to be derived
from the Indian tradition,
from the Egyptian
tradition, from the Iranian.
And this is one of the
great concepts of ascension,
that it's meant to
unify all the world's
religious and mystic traditions.
And this is what we've
been seeing over and over,
in this episode and others,
that our ascension is going
to require a unification
of our heart, our mind,
of our earthly world with
the celestial realms.
And as we continue
our journey, we're
going to see more and more that
these ascension mysteries were
deliberately placed
in various cultures,
all opening our mind
to the reality that
behind the veil of
our consciousness
is a phenomenal reality
that we are all now
invited to step into.
[MUSIC PLAYING]